cloud: update serverless tier private link instructions (#13139)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md

### Serverless Tier

To connect to your Serverless Tier cluster via a private endpoint, follow these steps:

1. [Choose a TiDB cluster](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster)
2. [Create an AWS interface endpoint](#step-2-create-an-aws-interface-endpoint)
3. [Connect to your TiDB cluster](#step-3-connect-to-your-tidb-cluster)

#### Step 1. Choose a TiDB cluster

1. On the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, click the name of your target Serverless Tier cluster to go to its overview page.
2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.
3. In the **Endpoint Type** drop-down list, select **Private**.
4. Take a note of **Service Name**, **Availability Zone ID**, and **Region ID**.

    > **Note:**
    >
    >  You only need to create one private endpoint per AWS region, which can be shared by all Serverless Tier clusters located in the same region.

#### Step 2. Create an AWS interface endpoint

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Use AWS Console">

To use the AWS Management Console to create a VPC interface endpoint, perform the following steps:

> 1. Go to **VPC** > **Endpoints**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to the [AWS Management Console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/) and open the Amazon VPC console at < https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/>.
```

> 2. Click **Create Endpoint**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Endpoints** in the navigation pane, and then click **Create Endpoint** in the upper-right corner.
```

> 1. Sign in to the [AWS Management Console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/) and open the Amazon VPC console at < https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to the [AWS Management Console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/) and open the Amazon VPC console at <https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/>.
```

    The **Create endpoint** page is displayed.

    ![Verify endpoint service](/media/tidb-cloud/private-endpoint/create-endpoint-2.png)

3. Select **Other endpoint services**.

> 4. Enter the **Service Name**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enter the service name that you found in [step 1](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster).
```

5. Click **Verify service**.

> 6. Select your VPC in the drop-down list. Click the **Additional settings** icon and select the **Enable DNS name** checkbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select your VPC in the drop-down list. Expand the **Additional settings** and select the **Enable DNS name** checkbox.
```

> 7. Select the availability zone where your TiDB cluster is located in the **Subnets** area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. In the **Subnets** area, select the availability zone where your TiDB cluster is located, and select the Subnet ID.
```

Reviewer: If the Subnect ID is not selected, the following error will be reported
![hXM9PGInAi](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79440533/236977993-a688be81-ed32-4cb3-bc77-1c7a60c2359b.jpg)

> 6. Select your VPC in the drop-down list. Expand the **Additional settings** and select the **Enable DNS name** checkbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select your VPC in the drop-down list. Expand **Additional settings** and select the **Enable DNS name** checkbox.
```

8. Select your security group properly in the **Security groups** area.

    > **Note:**
    >
    >  Make sure the selected security group allows inbound access from your EC2 instances on port 4000.

9. Click **Create endpoint**.

</div>
<div label="Use AWS CLI">

To use the AWS CLI to create a VPC interface endpoint, perform the following steps:

> 1. To get the **VPC ID** and **Subnet ID**, navigate to your AWS Management Console, and locate them in the relevant sections. Make sure that you fill in the **Subnet ID** with the **Availability Zone ID** that you found in [step 1](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster).

Reviewer: "Make sure that you fill in the **Subnet ID** with the **Availability Zone ID** that you found in [step 1](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster)." 这里是对的吗，前面一句提到  To get the **VPC ID** and **Subnet ID**, navigate to your AWS Management Console, and locate them in the relevant sections.

Author: 你说的是对的，这里的 Subnet ID 是不能从 step 1 拿到的，我把它删掉了。

## Set up a private endpoint with AWS

This section describes how to set up a private endpoint with AWS PrivateLink for a Serverless Tier cluster and a Dedicated Tier cluster.

### Serverless Tier

To connect to your Serverless Tier cluster via a private endpoint, follow these steps:

1. [Choose a TiDB cluster](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster)
2. [Create an AWS interface endpoint](#step-2-create-an-aws-interface-endpoint)
3. [Connect to your TiDB cluster](#step-3-connect-to-your-tidb-cluster)

#### Step 1. Choose a TiDB cluster

1. Click the drop-down list and choose an available Serverless Tier cluster.
2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.
3. Select the **Private Endpoint** tab.

> 4. Take a note of **Service Name**, **Region ID** and **Availability Zone ID**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Take a note of **Service Name**, **Availability Zone ID**, and **Region ID**.
```

    > **Note:**
    >
    >  You only need to create one private endpoint per AWS region, which can be shared by all Serverless Tier clusters located in the same region.

#### Step 2. Create an AWS interface endpoint

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Use AWS Console">

To use the AWS Management Console to create a VPC interface endpoint, perform the following steps:

1. Go to **VPC** > **Endpoints**.
2. Click **Create Endpoint**.

    The **Create endpoint** page is displayed.

    ![Verify endpoint service](/media/tidb-cloud/private-endpoint/create-endpoint-2.png)

3. Select **Other endpoint services**.
4. Enter the **Service Name**.
5. Click **Verify service**.
6. Select your VPC in the drop-down list. Click on **Additional settings** icon and select the **Enable DNS name** checkbox.
7. Select the availability zone where your TiDB cluster is located in the **Subnets** area.
8. Select your security group properly in the **Security groups** area.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     >  Make sure the selected security group allows inbound access from your EC2 instances on Port 4000 or a customer-defined port.

Reviewer: Serverless Tier does not support customizing the port number

2. Copy the command provided below and replace the relevant arguments with the information you obtained, then execute it in your terminal.

```bash
aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --vpc-id ${your_vpc_id} --region ${region_id} --service-name ${service_name} --vpc-endpoint-type Interface --subnet-ids ${your_subnet_id}
```

> **Tip:**
>
> - Before running the command, you need to have AWS CLI installed and configured. See [AWS CLI configuration basics](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html) for details.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

Then you can connect to the endpoint service with the private DNS name.

#### Step 3: Connect to your TiDB cluster

After you have created the interface endpoint, go back to the TiDB Cloud console and take the following steps:

1. On the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

> 3. Select the **Private Endpoint** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Endpoint Type** drop-down list, select **Private**.
```

> 4. Under **Connect With**, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then connect to your cluster with the connection string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Connect With** drop-down list, select your preferred connection method. The corresponding connection string is displayed at the bottom of the dialog.
5. Connect to your cluster with the connection string.
```

> **Tip:**
>
> If you cannot connect to the cluster, the reason might be that the security group of your VPC endpoint in AWS is not properly set. See [this FAQ](#troubleshooting) for solutions.
>

> > If you encounter an error while creating a VPC endpoint that reads "private-dns-enabled cannot be set because there is already a conflicting DNS domain for gatewayXX-privatelink.XX.prod.aws.tidbcloud.com in the VPC vpc-XXXXX," it is due to the fact that a private endpoint has already been created, and creating a new one is unnecessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When creating a VPC endpoint, if you encounter an error `private-dns-enabled cannot be set because there is already a conflicting DNS domain for gatewayXX-privatelink.XX.prod.aws.tidbcloud.com in the VPC vpc-XXXXX`, it is due to that a private endpoint has already been created, and creating a new one is unnecessary.
```

### Dedicated Tier

> To connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster via a private endpoint, follow these steps:
> 
> In addition to the [prerequisites](#prerequisites), follow these steps to set up a private endpoint connection with AWS PrivateLink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster via a private endpoint, complete the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) and follow these steps:
```

> This section describes how to set up a private endpoint with AWS PrivateLink.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes how to set up a private endpoint with AWS PrivateLink for a Serverless Tier cluster and a Dedicated Tier cluster.
```

### Serverless Tier

To connect to your Serverless Tier cluster via a private endpoint, follow these steps:

1. [Choose a TiDB cluster](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster)
2. [Create an AWS interface endpoint](#step-2-create-an-aws-interface-endpoint)
3. [Connect to your TiDB cluster](#step-3-connect-to-your-tidb-cluster)

#### Step 1. Choose a TiDB cluster

> 1. Click the drop-down list and choose an available serverless tier cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the drop-down list and choose an available Serverless Tier cluster.
```

#### Step 2. Create an AWS interface endpoint

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Use AWS Console">

To use the AWS Management Console to create a VPC interface endpoint, perform the following steps:

1. Go to **VPC** > **Endpoints**.
2. Click **Create Endpoint**.

    The **Create endpoint** page is displayed.

    ![Verify endpoint service](/media/tidb-cloud/private-endpoint/create-endpoint-2.png)

3. Select **Other endpoint services**.
4. Enter the **Service Name**.
5. Click **Verify service**.
6. Select your VPC in the drop-down list. Click on **Additional settings** icon and select the **Enable DNS name** checkbox.
7. Select the availability zone where your TiDB cluster is located in the **Subnets** area.
8. Select your security group properly in the **Security groups** area.

    > **Note:**
    >
    >  Make sure the selected security group allows inbound access from your EC2 instances on Port 4000 or a customer-defined port.

9. Click **Create endpoint**.

</div>
<div label="Use AWS CLI">

To use the AWS CLI to create a VPC interface endpoint, perform the following steps:

> 1. To get the **VPC ID** and **Subnet ID**, navigate to your AWS Management Console, and locate them in the relevant sections. Ensure that you find the **Subnet ID** within the **Availability Zone ID** that you found in step 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To get the **VPC ID** and **Subnet ID**, navigate to your AWS Management Console, and locate them in the relevant sections. Ensure that you find the **Subnet ID** within the **Availability Zone ID** that you found in [step 1](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster).
```

2. Copy the command provided below and replace the relevant arguments with the information you obtained, then execute it in your terminal.

```bash

> aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --vpc-id <your_vpc_id> --region <region_id> --service-name <service_name> --vpc-endpoint-type Interface --subnet-ids <your_subnet_id>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
aws ec2 create-vpc-endpoint --vpc-id ${your_vpc_id} --region ${region_id} --service-name ${service_name} --vpc-endpoint-type Interface --subnet-ids ${your_subnet_id}
```

```

> **Tip:**
>
> - Before running the command, you need to have AWS CLI installed and configured. See [AWS CLI configuration basics](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html) for details.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> Then you can connect to the endpoint service with private DNS name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you can connect to the endpoint service with the private DNS name.
```

#### Step 3: Connect to your TiDB cluster

> After you have created interface endpoint, go back to the TiDB Cloud console and take the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have created the interface endpoint, go back to the TiDB Cloud console and take the following steps:
```

1. On the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.
3. Select the **Private Endpoint** tab.
4. Under **Connect With**, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then connect to your cluster with the connection string.

> **Tip:**
>
> If you cannot connect to the cluster, the reason might be that the security group of your VPC endpoint in AWS is not properly set. See [this FAQ](#troubleshooting) for solutions.
>
> If you encounter an error while creating a VPC endpoint that reads "private-dns-enabled cannot be set because there is already a conflicting DNS domain for gatewayXX-privatelink.XX.prod.aws.tidbcloud.com in the VPC vpc-XXXXX," it is due to the fact that a private endpoint has already been created, and creating a new one is unnecessary.

### Dedicated Tier

To connect to your Dedicated Tier cluster via a private endpoint, follow these steps:

> In addition to the [prerequisites](#prerequisites), there are 5 steps to set up a private endpoint connection with AWS PrivateLink:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the [prerequisites](#prerequisites), there are 6 steps to set up a private endpoint connection with AWS PrivateLink:
```

If you have multiple clusters, you need to repeat these steps for each cluster that you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.

#### Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

If you have multiple clusters, you need to repeat these steps for each cluster that you want to connect to using AWS PrivateLink.

#### Prerequisites

> To connect to TiDB Cloud's Dedicated Tier clusters, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This sentence is not necessary as it is under Prerequisites

3. Click the **Private Endpoint** tab.
4. Click **Add** in the upper-right corner.

#### Step 1. Choose a TiDB cluster

> 1. Click the drop-down list and choose an available dedicated tier cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the drop-down list and choose an available Dedicated Tier cluster.
```

To use the AWS Management Console to create a VPC interface endpoint, perform the following steps:

1. Sign in to the [AWS Management Console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/) and open the Amazon VPC console at <https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/>.
2. Click **Endpoints** in the navigation pane, and then click **Create Endpoint** in the upper-right corner.

    The **Create endpoint** page is displayed.

    ![Verify endpoint service](/media/tidb-cloud/private-endpoint/create-endpoint-2.png)

3. Select **Other endpoint services**.

> 4. Enter the service name that you found in [step 1](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster).

Reviewer: Dedicated Tier 的 service name 在这里
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79440533/237001891-0da7907e-a6a3-4c28-81ab-c08948c729f8.png)

> 4. Enter the service name that you found in [step 1](#step-1-choose-a-tidb-cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enter the service name that you found in the TiDB Cloud console.
```
